# Cloud Detection from Images

Foobar is a Python library for dealing with word pluralization.

## Installation and Setup

All code used to generate the reports is present in the RNW file. There is a separate CVGeneric.R file that creates a generic cross-validation function using the library caret. Installing the .RNW will walk users through the entire process of the project.


## Overview

The RNW file is separated into different sections based on the outlined sections of the report. Code chunks are placed appropriately into places that answer specific questions. Additionally, must code chunks are named with what type of functions it contains so that users can easily scroll through and follow along with the general.

Functions later mentioned in "quotations" are the titles of the blocks that will look like: <<>>=quotation.

### Part 1 Data Collection and Exploration
This section of code investigates the general summary of the different dataframes loaded in. The first code block summarizes and gets the percentage of cloudy and uncloudy pixels. The plotting section then shows maps of the cloud distribution. The following code blocks investigate the pairwise relationships between variables. The most important block is the one labeled "Plotting functions", feel free to use these functions to investigate specific relationships. Samples on how to use this function are located right below that code block.

### Part 2 Preparation 
This section of code shows users how to set up splitting the data into our different methods of a grid/blocking (50x50) and the x-axis ("50x50 split" and "X-axis split" are the functions). Some additional data exploration is then done to see which features might be useful for classification. 

To implement our generic CV function we rely on the underlying dataframe to have a column named. Our helper function that creates the folds according to our different split methods is "Fold Creation" which allows the "Generic CV Function" to train and return accuracies of the model. Users can go into the "Generic CV function" to change the loss type and preprocessing. We have used MSE and centering and scaling as our preprocessing functions. 

The "Generic CV function" takes in the name of a classifier in the caret package (ie "glm", "rpart", a list of the features that will be used to model, the actual name of the feature to be predicted on, the number of folds, the type of loss, and the dataframe to use). 

### Part 3 Modeling
This section demonstrates how to use the generic CV function with our four different models and different dataframes generated by the "Fold Creation" method. In between the different model generations is some exploration in the accuracy and the assumptions that are used for that model. The ROC curves can be plotted within the "ROC curves" function.

### Part 4 Diagnostics
Before running this part, users should rerun the blocking method and blocking decision tree to ensure that the best model is being used to analyze our data and misclassification tendencies. Within this part, users can see what the best decision tree actually uses for splits as well as what the predicted image looks like.
